# PHP101: Introduction to PHP

Welcome to PHP101! This course is designed to give you a comprehensive introduction to PHP, a popular server-side scripting language used to develop dynamic web pages. The course will follow a structured approach similar to the learning style found on W3Schools.com.

## Table of Contents

1. [PHP Introduction](#php-introduction)
2. [PHP Syntax](#php-syntax)
3. [PHP Comments](#php-comments)
4. [PHP Variables](#php-variables)
5. [PHP Echo/Print](#php-echoprint)
6. [PHP Data Types](#php-data-types)
7. [PHP Strings](#php-strings)
8. [PHP Numbers](#php-numbers)
9. [PHP Casting](#php-casting)
10. [PHP Math Functions](#php-math-functions)
11. [PHP Constants](#php-constants)
12. [PHP Operators](#php-operators)
13. [PHP Date/Time](#php-datetime)

---

## PHP Introduction

PHP is a server-side scripting language designed specifically for web development. It stands for "PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor." PHP code is executed on the server, and the result is returned to the browser as plain HTML. PHP is widely used for creating dynamic content and can interact with databases, generate page content, and much more.

## What is a PHP File?
 - PHP files can contain text, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and PHP code
 - PHP code is executed on the server, and the result is returned to the browser as plain HTML
 - PHP files have extension ".php"

## What Can PHP Do?
 - PHP can generate dynamic page content
 - PHP can create, open, read, write, delete, and close files on the server
 - PHP can collect form data
 - PHP can send and receive cookies
 - PHP can add, delete, modify data in your database
 - PHP can be used to control user-access
 - PHP can encrypt data

## Why PHP?
 - PHP runs on various platforms (Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac OS X, etc.)
 - PHP is compatible with almost all servers used today (Apache, IIS, etc.)
 - PHP supports a wide range of databases
 - PHP is free. Download it from the official PHP resource: www.php.net
 - PHP is easy to learn and runs efficiently on the server side


## PHP Syntax

PHP scripts are executed on the server, and the syntax of PHP is quite similar to C and Perl. A PHP script starts with `<?php` and ends with `?>`. The PHP code is embedded within HTML and can be mixed with HTML tags.

Example:
    ```php
    <?php
    echo "Hello, World!";
    ?>

## PHP Comments
Comments in PHP are used to leave notes in the code or to disable parts of the code during testing. PHP supports single-line and multi-line comments.

       
## PHP Variables
Variables in PHP are used to store data, like strings, numbers, or arrays. A variable in PHP starts with a $ sign, followed by the name of the variable.
    ```php
    <?php
    $greeting = "Hello, World!";
    echo $greeting;
    ?>


## PHP Echo/Print
echo and print are PHP constructs used to output data to the screen. echo can take multiple parameters, while print can only take one argument.
    ```php
    <?php
    echo "Hello, World!";
    print "Hello, World!";
    ?>

## 
